Finishing Guild Wars Prophesies 17 Years After Release
======================================================

[Guild Wars](https://www.guildwars.com) is a massive multiplayer online
role-playing game released in the spring of 2005. Although my younger self put
*hundreds* of hours into this game, I had never actually gotten around to
finishing any of the game's major campaigns until very recently.

When COVID-19 put the world into lockdown at the start of 2020 I had a lot of
free time on my hands[^1], and figured it was the perfect opportunity go on a
Guild Wars nostalgia trip. My plan was to play the main campaigns/expansions in
chronological order
([Prophecies](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Guild_Wars_Prophecies), then
[Factions](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Guild_Wars_Factions), then
[Nightfall](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Guild_Wars_Nightfall), and finally
[Eye of the
North](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Guild_Wars_Eye_of_the_North)) with a
single character starting from pre-Searing Ascalon in the Prophecies campaign.
Back when I was younger I mained an elementalist fire nuker, so I decided to
stick with that flavor of build for this playthrough. I created my character,
spent ~35 hours grinding up to level 20 in Pre-Searing for the [Legendary
Defender of Ascalon](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Defender_of_Ascalon)
title, and then progressed through the Prophecies campaign more or less as
normal[^2] up until I reached Lion's Arch.

Up to this point I was working my way through the Prophesies campaign using a
party built from the henchmen local to each city/outpost. But I figured that if
I was going to be playing through the entirety of Guild Wars
single-player-style then it would be nice to have a full set of seven heros for
the rest of my time in the campaigns. So I uh... took a detour and... went
ahead and beat the entirety of the Eye of the North expansion. I went into the
Eye of the North content expecting to grab a smattering of heros and continue
on with Prophesies, but I ended up finishing the final mission in Eye of the
North *before* completing [Report to the White
Mantle](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Report_to_the_White_Mantle) in
Prophesies.

Exploring the main content of Eye of the North allowed me to build up a solid
party and flesh out my elementalist with a "good enough" set of skills to get
through rest of the Prophesies missions. My build and party composition were
less than optimal, but thankfully Prophesies is pretty lenient on the
difficulty side of things. I was able to breeze through the rest of the
campaign without too much trouble, although the last mission, [Hell's
Precipice](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Hell%27s_Precipice), did require a
couple of tries to beat. In total it took about a hundred hours of play time on
this character to complete every mission[^3] in Prophesies.

You would think this is where I would say "mission accomplished" on the
Prophesies portion of my Guild Wars playthrough, but you would be wrong. See,
after you complete Hell's Precipice, there are a couple of quests that task the
player to deal with the Titans that are still threatening Tyria. These quests
include, [Defend Droknar's
Forge](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Defend_Droknar%27s_Forge), [Defend North
Kryta Province](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Defend_North_Kryta_Province),
[Defend Denravi](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Defend_Denravi), [The Last Day
Dawns](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/The_Last_Day_Dawns), and [The Titan
Source](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/The_Titan_Source). Most of these quests
are challenging, but they are not extraordinarily difficult. Defend Droknar's
Forge and The Titan Source can be brute forced, Defend Denravi can be cheesed,
and Defend North Kryta Province can be beaten with a good planning and a bit of
luck[^4]. But The Last Day Dawns... that quest is without a doubt the hardest
piece of content I have completed in Guild Wars, and was an absolute nightmare
to finish.

<div id=the-last-day-dawns></div>
Okay so let me explain exactly why The Last Day Dawns is such utter bullshit,
and why this quest was so difficult to complete. Your maximum party size in the
Prophesies campaign starts at four in the early-game areas of the post-Searing
map, increases to six in the mid-game areas of the map, and then finally caps
off at eight in the late-game areas of the map. It is in one of these
early-game areas that The Last Day Dawns takes place, so the party size is
restricted to a maximum of four characters. But the enemy encounters in this
quest are designed as if they were being fought with an end-game party
consisting of eight characters. Every encounter ends up being a struggle to
survive, because the party is fighting at a limited power level against enemies
that were already difficult to begin with. It is as if the effectiveness of the
party has been cut in half[^5].

But it gets worse! In this quest you have to keep King Adelbern alive while
fighting off five groups of Titans. King Adelbern apparently has a death wish,
because his combat strategy seems to be "charge head-on into battle and die
lmao". So you have to deal with not one, but five really difficult fights in a
row, without really having a chance to take a break and recover, all while King
Adelbern is trying his best to get himself killed.

But oh it gets even worse-er! My build is a fire nuker elementalist, and the
Titans in this quest are all fire-based, meaning they have a high armor rating
against fire typed damage. So my character's attacks are much less effective
against these Titans than the attacks would be against other high level
enemies. My elementalist's damage output isn't zero, but in an area where my
party is already at a disadvantage due to the low maximum party size, the
limited damage output from one of the main damage dealers ends up severely
hurting the overall survivability of the party. As far as I could tell there
was no way to deal enough damage to take down each group of Titans before
getting overwhelmed.

This quest frustrated me to no end. I was so close to finishing what I
considered to be the "main content" of the Prophesies campaign, but I could not
find a way to get through this quest. I was really not in the mood to gather a
whole new set of gear and skills to switch builds, and I did not really feel
like throwing my party against a wall over and over again in the hopes of
getting lucky, so I shelved the playthrough.

But a over a year and a half later I still felt that I had unfinished business.
It didn't seem right just leaving things as they were so close to the finish
line. So a few weeks ago I returned to my Guild Wars playthrough to complete
what I had started.

I decided to keep my fire nuker elementalist build, but this time around I
focused much more on optimizing the rest of the limited party. I revamped the
party composition to consist of myself as a nuker, two E-Surge mesmers, and one
healing / protection monk. I also committed to using a much more arduous but
safer strategy of running the long way around the map to enter the main combat
area from a back route, skipping the trigger that sends King Adelbern into
battle, and allowing the party to engage the majority of the Titan groups one
at a time. This strategy was a pain in the behind to execute, because every
time my party would die fighting a Titan group I would have to make a four and
a half minute journey from the resurrection shrine back to the main combat
area. I had attempted this strategy in the past, but had messed it up every
time after spending hours carving through the explorable area, so this was the
first time I actually got the strategy to work.

Anyway, with patience and little bit of luck, I was completed The Last Day
Dawns on the evening of 2022-05-24! Shortly thereafter I completed the
following quest, The Titan Source[^6], meaning that I had finally finished the
main Guild Wars Prophesies content! Completing the base campaign of a now-dead
MMO over 17 years after release isn't exactly a total-1337-pro-gamer
achievement worth shouting from the rooftops, but it does feel satisfying to
reach the end of a journey that feels like it has been over a decade and a half
in the making. Guild Wars was a *huge* part of my life, and I think past-me
would be very proud of what we have accomplished[^7].

## Footnotes
[^1]:
It's not like I was going to be attending events or meeting with
friends/coworkers anytime soon, so I might as well dump over a hundred hours
into a video game right?

[^2]:
Although I was obviously overpowered in the early-game after reaching max-level
in Pre-Searing.

[^3]:
And the bonus objectives for each mission!

[^4]:
I actually encountered a glitch while completing Defend North Kryta Province.
My party died just as the quest completed, allowing me to turn the quest in
even though the game sent me back to the outpost upon death. This isn't
anything noteworthy, I just thought it was interesting.

[^5]:
This isn't quite true; scaling a party down from eight to four doesn't exactly
cut party effectiveness in half. Party members play different roles within the
team. Some party members are all about damage, some provide support in the form
of healing and/or damage mitigation, others try to prevent the enemy from
taking actions, etc. So reducing party size down from eight to four may mean
cutting out damage dealers in some instances or cutting out support in other
instances. It all depends on the encounters a party is facing, so it isn't as
clean as saying half the party means exactly half the effectiveness.

[^6]:
Which is way easier than The Last Day Dawns for some reason despite supposedly
being the capstone to the Prophesies questline.

[^7]:
That being said, I still have two campaigns to go. I have already started
Factions, and am having a lot of fun so far. Once I finish Factions I will work
my way through Nightfall and (maybe) complete some hard-mode content. My fire
nuker elementalist build is okay as a area-of-effect damage dealer, but I have
a feeling I may need to revamp my build to tackle some of the more difficult
content in the game.
