Completing All of the Guild Wars Campaigns
==========================================

Previously I wrote a [blog
post](/blog/2022-06-17-finishing-guild-wars-prophesies-17-years-after-release.html)
about my journey completing the Guild Wars Eye of the North expansion and
Prophesies campaign for the first time. Well after a couple more months of
playing I have now completed the remaining two Guild Wars campaigns:
[Factions](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Guild_Wars_Factions) and
[Nightfall](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Guild_Wars_Nightfall). With all
four of the major campaigns/expansions[^1] completed, I have finally finished
what could be considered the main content of Guild Wars. I put a *lot* of time
into Guild Wars when I was younger, but I had never actually seen either of
these campaigns through to completion until now, so this is a big
accomplishment for me!

Back in 2020 I made a new Guild Wars account and worked my way through
Prophesies with a slight detour to complete Eye of the North. I beat Eye of the
North[^2], beat Prophesies, and then took a year and a half break before
finally finishing the post-final-mission Prophesies quests dealing with the
Titans across Tyria. Overcoming the absolute [insane difficulty spike of The
Last Day
Dawns](/blog/2022-06-17-finishing-guild-wars-prophesies-17-years-after-release.html#the-last-day-dawns)
got me back on a Guild Wars kick, and gave me the motivation to start working
my way through Factions and Nightfall.

I chose to go through the rest of the campaigns with the fire nuker
elementalist that I had used throughout Prophesies and Eye of the North,
partially because I wanted to do a full-game playthrough with a single
character, and partially because my elementalist already had a working build
and decent gear. Much of my time in Eye of the North and Prophesies was spent
developing a player skill bar that would be useful for a seven-hero
single-player playthrough of the campaigns, and by the end of Prophesies I had
settled on build that used [Arcane
Echo](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Arcane_Echo) in combination with
high-damage fire spells like [Rodgort's
Invocation](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Rodgort%27s_Invocation) and [Flame
Burst](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Flame_Burst) to deal a continuous stream
of powerful area of effect damage to groups of enemies.

My bar consisted of the skills:

1. [Meteor](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Meteor)
2. [Rodgort's Invocation](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Rodgort%27s_Invocation)
3. [Flare](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Flare)
4. [Flame Burst](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Flame_Burst)
5. [Arcane Echo](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Arcane_Echo)
6. [Glyph of Lesser Energy](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Glyph_of_Lesser_Energy)
7. [Elemental Attunement](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Elemental_Attunement)
8. [Fire Attunement](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Fire_Attunement)

Before engaging an enemy group I would cast Elemental Attunement followed by
Fire Attunement as a [cover](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Cover). Then I
would activate Glyph of Lesser Energy followed by Arcane Echo. Arcane Echo's
energy cost is completely negated by the first charge from Glyph of Lesser
Energy, and the remaining charge, in combination with the effects from the
attunement enchantments, make my next spell effectively free to cast. Generally
I would lead the engagement with Rodgort's Invocation, then follow up
immediately with the echoed Rodgort's Invocation, and then use Meteor to knock
down enemies and build up overcast. Depending on how the engagement was going
at this point I would either go back and forth casting my two Rodgort's
Invocations with the occasional Flare thrown in when both Rodgort's were
recharging, or if we were under heavy melee pressure I would use Flame Burst as
often as possible with whatever Rodgort's and Flare casts I could get in to
prevent my party from getting routed.

I really enjoyed creating and playing this build. Being able to cast high-cost
high-damage spells like Rodgort's Invocation and Flame Burst without worrying
about energy management feels fantastic. Elemental Attunement and Fire
Attunement cover most of my spells' energy cost, and occasional use of Glyph of
Lesser Energy plus support from a
[battery](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Battery) allows this build to spam
nuking spells indefinitely. There is also the option to echo either Meteor or
Flame Burst instead of Rodgort's Invocation depending on the combat situation.
If the party is getting rushed by an overwhelming number of melee enemies, then
it might be better to echo Flame Burst and explode the enemy group with a bunch
of bursts in quick succession. Or if the party is engaging with a group of
casters, then it might be better to echo meteor in order to access a second
knockdown as a way to gain a tempo advantage.

The build is certainly not without its faults. Activating Elemental Attunement,
Fire Attunement, Glyph of Lesser Energy, and Arcane Echo before every encounter
ends up taking a lot of time over the course of a full campaign. Arcane Echo's
20 second recharge starts *after* the echo effect ends, which meant the party
would often have to wait until Arcane Echo recharged before engaging in another
encounter. The build does decent damage, but all of the offensive skills are
armor respecting, so the build does not scale well against high-level enemies
with a high armor rating. And although it is fun to have a near infinite energy
pool, if a spell is interrupted then energy used to activate that spell would
not be recovered by the attunement enchantments.

Faults aside, the Arcane Echo fire nuker build was still a ton of fun to use
for general PvE gameplay, enough so that I stuck with it throughout the
entirety of the Factions and Nightfall campaigns. As for the rest of the team,
I decided to swap out my party of assorted heros from Eye of the North and the
introductory section of Nightfall for a team of seven [mercenary
heros](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Mercenary_Hero) before starting the
Factions campaign. I used a slight variation of the [7 Hero Beginner
Team](https://gwpvx.fandom.com/wiki/Build:Team_-_7_Hero_Beginner_Team)
composition since it had a great rating on the PvX wiki, was relatively easy to
set up, and did not require hero micromanagement to be effective during nominal
gameplay.

After settling on build and team composition I began my Journey through the
Factions campaign. Although my younger self owned Factions, I had never
progressed much past Kaineng City with any of my previous characters. So unlike
Prophesies, Factions was an almost entirely fresh experience for me. The
campaign provided a significant difficulty hike from the majority of the
content seen in Prophesies, and the story felt much more focused. For this
playthrough I arbitrarily decided to side with the Kurziks, but at some point I
would like to go back and complete the Luxon branch of the campaign since I did
not get to see much of the Jade Sea.

Overall I enjoyed my time with Factions. The campaign was a lot shorter than I
was expecting; it took just 12 cooperative missions to complete Factions, which
is less than half of the 25 cooperative missions it took to complete
Prophesies[^3]. However, I do not think the shorter campaign was necessarily a
bad thing. Prophesies meandered all over the place with its plot and had like
seven acts, so I can appreciate a tighter campaign where each mission feels
relevant to the overarching story. The Afflicted and Shiro'ken were fun enemies
to fight. Shiro Tagachi was a decent enough big bad evil guy. The story was
entertaining. The combat was engaging. The new professions and skills further
increased options in an already excellent skill system. And the new continent
of Cantha was incredibly interesting to explore. Factions was a pretty good
campaign, and I am glad to have finally seen it through to its conclusion.

Having finished Eye of the North, Prophesies, and Factions, there was only one
campaign left for me to complete: Nightfall. Similar to my prior experience
with Factions, my younger self owned Nightfall, but did not progress very far
into the campaign. I specifically remember the Venta Cemetery mission being the
farthest I had ever gotten, which is still relatively early within the
Nightfall story. At this point I was comfortable with my build and team
composition, so my party absolutely destroyed this campaign. It felt like the
entirety of Nightfall was in easy mode up until the party reached the Realm of
Torment, and even then the last few missions still felt like they were easier
than what was seen towards the end of the Prophesies, Factions, and Eye of the
North campaigns. For this playthrough I arbitrarily chose to follow the Master
of Whispers branch of the story, but once again I would like to go back and
complete the Margrid the Sly missions at some point down the road.

Nightfall was by far my favorite campaign to complete. The Guild Wars team was
really hitting their stride at this point, and there is noticeable jump in the
quality of writing from Prophesies/Factions to Nightfall. Varesh Ossa is
developed much more as a villain than either Vizier Khilbron or Shiro Tagachi,
and Abaddon is about as epic of an big bad evil guy as you can get. The
continent of Elona feels less geologically diverse than Tyria and Cantha, but
Realm of Torment is such an interesting area that Nightfall is now the campaign
that I am most excited to revisit and explore in the post-game. Once again I am
glad to have finally seen this campaign through to its conclusion.

With Abaddon defeated and the world saved (again) I have finished all of what I
would consider to be the main content of Guild Wars. There are still plenty of
things to do with this character: areas to explore, quests to complete, hard
mode missions to tackle, titles to max, expansion content such as the Guild
Wars Beyond storyline and the Bonus Mission Pack to investigate, dungeons such
as The Fissure of Woe to clear, and much much more. I have accomplished pretty
much everything I wanted to do when I started this journey, but my playthrough
has been so much fun that I think will continue adventuring with this character
for the foreseeable future.

I have thoroughly enjoyed my time revisiting Guild Wars. I originally embarked
on this journey for nostalgia reasons, but after over 180 hours in-game I have
to say that Guild Wars holds up really well in the year 2022. Coming back to
Guild Wars as an adult has given me a better appreciation of the incredibly
unique experience that this game provides, and I am so happy that I decided to
introduce Guild Wars into my life again.

## Footnotes
[^1]:
According to the Guild Wars
[store](https://store.guildwars.com/en-us/product/guild-wars-complete-collection)
and [wiki](https://wiki.guildwars.com/wiki/Campaign), Prophesies, Factions, and
Nightfall are considered campaigns, and Eye of the North is considered an
expansion pack. However, Eye of the North provides content on a similar scale
to what one would find in an official campaign, so for the rest of this blog
post I am going to include Eye of the North as an honorary campaign in order to
avoid having to write out "campaign/expansion" every time I want to talk about
the three official campaigns plus Eye of the North.

[^2]:
With the help of a very kind player, Migate Man, who assisted me and another
player on the last Eye of the North quest, A Time for Heros, using a speed
clear build that absolutely tore through the final boss!

[^3]:
Technically you can skip over 80% of the missions in Prophesies if you know
what you are doing, but for the sake of this blog post I am only going to
consider a nominal playthrough of these campaigns.
