Super Mario 64 Notes
====================

2021-06-01

First time playing through SM64. Played on Nintendo Switch using the Super Mario
3D All-Stars release. Finished my first play through in just a couple of nights
playing casually after work. There is no in-game timer, but I would be surprised
if this playthrough took more than twelve hours. I got exactly 70 stars before
beating Bowser.

Honestly, this game was a pretty big disappointment. This game gets a lot of
praise from the online gaming community, supposedly for its revolutionary design
(for a 3D platformed at the time) and movement mechanics. Going into the game I
was anticipating a platforming experience similar to Super Mario 3D Land or
Super Mario Odyssey (the only other two 3D Mario games I have played). But what
I got was something much worse, so much so that I wonder if I was even playing
the same SM64 as everyone else.

## Good
Castle as a hub world is nice. Gives good context to the adventure and serves as
an interesting set of connections between levels. In particular, I like that the
castle opens up with world changing events as the game progresses, such as
unlocking the large key doors and lowering the water level of the moat.

Mario has a *ton* of movement options. Jump, double jump, triple jump, long
jump, side hop, dive, backflip, walk, run, punch, kick, and probably some other
actions I am not thinking of. Similar to Super Mario Odyssey just navigating
from point A to point B is fun in and of itself. There are so many different
ways that you can choose to tackle an obstacle, and it feels when you execute a
complex set of movement actions to reach an objective such as a star or
platform.

The game has a nice DIY difficulty curve. Completing the game only requires 70
stars (if you don't use speedrun tech), but a completionist can grab up to 120
stars, and the game is pretty hands off about the whole thing. You get text
boxes every once in a while saying "hey you can probably go in this door now" on
your journey to 70 stars. But *you* get to choose when to call it quits.

Similarly being able to tackle stars in almost any order within a level /
available floor is pretty great. I would try to get the max starts (except the
100 coin star) for every level I entered, but there were times when I would
switch levels upon getting stuck. I got to *choose* when I considered a level
"beat enough" to move on.

SM64 respects the player's intelligence. You usually have to do some non-trivial
amount of work in order to get a star, and the hints that the game provides
still require the player to do some thinking on their end to figure out where a
star would be located and how they might reach it. Contrast this with SMO where
most power moons take nearly zero effort to collect, and you see that the
collectibles in SM64 really feel earned.

## Bad
The camera is so painfully terrible. I get that the original N64 controller
wasn't the most optimal controller for a 3D platformer when compared the the
standard duel-stick controllers we have today, but damn does the camera suck.
For whatever reason the lakitu camera will often automatically position itself
so that the next obstacle is opposite the field of view. Switching to Mario
camera will *sometimes* help this but it really is a crap shoot. Both cameras
have a tendency to reposition themselves mid-jump, which has sent me to my death
multiple times while course correcting in mid air. I get that this was from a
time when 3D camera controls were still experimental, so want to give the SM64
team credit for creating something that works as an 80% solution, but man does
that last 20% really stick with me negatively.

The movement is also less than stellar. In the "good" section I praised the
movement options, so you would think that I actually liked the movement system
in SM64, but having lots of options won't save the rigid, clunky, all around
painful handling of Mario. There is often a disconnect between player intent and
the actual actions that occur. Moving in the stick in on direction will move
Mario that direction, but with a turning radius that can send you off a cliff.
Lightly holding A to jump over a small obstacle looks like it will work until
you ledge grab and spend the next few seconds figuring out how to wrangle the
controls to climb onto the ledge while the moving platform you were just on
leaves you behind. Want to change directions? Well there is a cutoff at some
point that will change the way you turn from using a turning radius to instantly
facing that direction. Don't want to risk falling off of that super small ledge,
well you better slow to a complete stop every time before making even the
smallest movement!

Many levels are unimaginative obstacle courses. Levels like "Bob-omb
Battlefield", and Big Boo's Haunt provide excellent (if sparse) narrative
through there theming and gameplay. But many of the levels in SM64 provide
little more than a set of blocky obstacles and enemies with a coat of paint to
tie everything together. "Lethal Lava Land", "Wet-Dry World", or my least
favorite level in the game "Rainbow Ride", feel like they were created by
slapping a bunch of similarly themed asserts together. By the end of my time
with SM64 I just could not get invested in some of these courses, and found
myself grabbing one or two stars and then leaving.

## Conclusion

My frustrations with the movement system (most of which stemming from turning
radius) combined with a lack of engaging levels left me with an overall negative
experience. And to be clear this isn't just me not liking 3D platformer: while I
tend to prefer the 2D Mario games (+ New Super Mario Bros), I had a blast on my
first playthrough with SMO and Super Mario 3D Land is one of my favorite games
of all time. Super Mario 64 just really didn't do it for me. I got my 70 stars
and defeated Bowser, but I don't want to play any more of this game and I don't
see myself revisiting SM64 ant time soon. I can acknowledge the cultural
significance of SM64 and its impact on the industry, but as far as personal
preference goes I don't think Super Mario 64 is going to appear on my "top games
of all time" in the near future.
