Din's Curse Notes
=================

I stumbled upon Din's Curse this past weekend after searching online for an
offline game with endless replayability, a.k.a a "forever game". I wanted
something that I could come back to indefinitely over the coming months and
years as I transition into a stage of my life that is likely to involve much
less gaming. I wanted a fun, singleplayer, offline game that I could be
reasonably sure would be available for years in the future on Windows and/or
Linux. Din's Curse was recommended as one such game, pitched as "Diablo but
with an active world that does not wait around for the player", which sounded
like it might be up my alley.

Din's Curse is an isometric 3D Diablo-like ARPG where the player is tasked with
saving towns from the evil in the dungeons below each town. Each dungeon
consists of a number of floors with a randomized layout. NPCs in a town will
give the player quests to complete that are usually tied to a specific floor:
kill X monsters, collect Y of this item, find artifact Z, etc. Once all of the
non-optional quests have been completed, the town is considered saved and the
player is then able to move to the next town and repeat the process.

The novel gameplay mechanic in Din's Curse is the way that the dungeon/town
continues to tick along at all times. An NPC might say "hey there is a big boss
on floor 7 that we are worried about, so should hurry and kill them". And that
NPC really does mean *hurry*, because that boss might be getting ready to send
minions the town you are trying to save, and if you haven't remedied the
situation then you might lose some villagers during the attack. There is a real
sense of urgency in saving the town, and the player is required to prioritize
quests and exploration goals in order to most effectively save the town.

For my playthough I chose the wizard class. I spent ~12 hours saving a total of
three towns. I started the first town at the "normal" difficulty for my level.
I quickly specialized into fire magic and worked my way through the initial
dungeon without too much trouble. At one point my town did get attacked while I
wasn't there and I lost a few townspeople before I was able to make it back,
but overall it was a nice warm up. I dumped a lot of my skill points into
Fiery Blast and ended up with a pretty powerful single-target skill by the time
I saved the town.

I started my second town at the easiest possible difficulty I could, to see if
the levels I gained from my first town would allow me to breeze through a lower
level dungeon. And I was in fact correct, I absolutely dominated the second
dungeon with basically no trouble. Ironically this is the town that I lost the
most villagers in, because there was a particularly bad attack that took me far
to long to fend off due to me being stuck in the lower levels of a dungeon with
not easy-to-find warp gate at the time. This town was also interesting because
there was a water drought, a food famine, and a curse that was all effecting
the town at one. Even I eventually was effected by the curse, and had a
permanent debuf until I completed the quest that allowed all the villagers and
myself to be cured of the curse. During this quest I also started using the
Fireball spell for AoE damage in addition to Fiery Blast.

I started my third town on the hardest possible difficult I could, to see if a
higher difficulty was easier for leveling and if a higher difficulty would
provide more of a challenge. This town was definitely more of a challenge; I
died a *lot* in the dungeon, and I had to be much more thoughtful with the way
I engaged in combat. Ironically, this town was the only one that did not get
attacked. So although this was the hardest of the three towns to complete, it
was also the only town where no one died.

This third town/dungeon also ended up reveling what I think might be the
biggest flaw with Din's Curse. Up to the third town point I was using a
combination of my two damaging fire skills, plus some passives, and Shield of
Fire. I figured that a varied handful of skills would be useful for different
situations, so I wanted some single-target damage, some AoE damage, some mana
recovery, and some defence. But when it came to facing the more difficult
enemies in the third dungeon, the best strategy ended up being "put as many
points as possible into Fiery Blast + Fire Mastery and nothing else". I think I
ended up keeping one level of Deep Thought, but other than that all of my
points were put into buffing single target DpS, because that just ended up
being faster than anything else, even for groups of enemies. And it was with
this realization that the game stopped being fun, because now my entire build
consisted of mashing the "2" key to burst down enemies, which is kinda lame.
Yes there was still skill involved in movement and tactics, but having just
come from Guild Wars, a game with amazing build variety and strategy, the skill
system in Din's Curse felt kinda weak.

The game also has some other pretty major flaws. The quests are always "kill X"
or "collect Y". There is no feeling of permanence in the world, with all of the
towns feeling disjointed. In the 12 hours I played the enemies were already
starting to feel a bit repetitive (lots of orcs and dark elves). And the
Diablo-style gameplay means that everything quickly becomes a numbers game over
a skill game.

Din's Curse was a good weekend adventure, but I doubt I will be making this my
forever game. Maybe my class choise was subpar, or maybe the dungeon RNG was
not on my side, but things got too boring to quickly, and I stopped having fun
much quicker than I thought I would.
