Cadence of Hyrule
=================

Purchased for ~$40 from the Nintendo eShop for Nintendo Switch last Friday.
Played through Story Mode that Friday (work wellness day) and then on played
though Octavo's Ode that Monday (President's day). That first story mode run
was more-or-less Zelda-only and took 12:24:24 w/ 92078 steps and 9 game overs.
The Octavo's Ode run took 3:58:37 w/ 30564 steps and 2 game overs.

In my first run I tried to do everything and explore all areas - I didn't end
up 100%ing the game as I missed the Zora Flippers and a couple of heart pieces,
but it was definitely a "full playthrough". In that playthough I completed a
good chunk of the future-world content before defeating the present-world
bosses and liked that there was really nothing stopping me from doing things
"out of order". I was lucky to stumble upon one of the fairies early and was
able to use an Obsidian Spear for pretty much the entire run.

In my second run I only defeated the four present-world bosses and didn't
really bother with the future-world content. That Octavo's Ode run was meant to
be a quickish run rather than a full playthough considering how much time I had
spent already playing the game that weekend.

Overall this game kicks total ass. Crypt of the Necrodancer and Legend of Zelda
are two of my favorite brands and having the persistent world and puzzle
elements of a LoZ mixed with the rouge-lite rythem based mechanic of CotN was a
wonderful experience. The persistent inventory and world, is something that
would totally not work in vanilla CotN, but works wonderfully here. The LoZ
inventory has the classic problem with 2D LoZ games where some items are just
way more useful then others. I was using Bombs, the Power Glove, Longshot,
Great Bow, and Lute pretty much exclusively. I literally never used the Rito
Fether, Deku Leak, War Drum, Magic Cape, and Pegasus Anklet. Scrolls were a
cool addition, but even those I barely used during my main playthough (I
heavily used Scroll of Enchant Weapon for boss battles in my Octavo's Ode run).
Item qualms aside this was a really worthwhile game, and I definitely see myself
revisiting it (Link only playthough?) again sometime.
