Bastion
=======

Originally played this game on PC way back in university. I never completed it,
but it turns out that in my first playthough I was like 80% of the way through
the game when I put it down. I bought Bastion for switch something like two
years ago and never got around to playing it until yesterday. I started
yesterday evening and finished today by noon, so the game is pretty short. I
had a good time, so I assume it was worth however much money I payed for it
when I bought it on the Nintendo eShop.

The visuals and narration are really well done, and I think that Bastion is on
the upper end of the pretty video game spectrum. The story is short and sweet,
but there was a good amount of worldbuilding, and by the end I was more
invested in the plot then the actual combat mechanics of the game. I chose to
save Zulf and Reset the World as my ending in order to save the most lives, but
I would like to go back and try the other options if I ever do a NG+ run.

Gameplay wise I honestly don't think Bastion is anything special - the combat
has a really low skill threshold and story mode is really *really* easy to
beat. When you start a new game you are given an option between the equivalent
of an easy and normal mode. I chose the normal mode, but never really faced a
difficult challenge in-game. I was pretty much always had the max amount of
healing items at my disposal, and all enemies (even bosses), can be taken out
in a few hits. I mained the War Machete & Army Carbine for the majority of my
playthrough, then switched to War Machete & Calamity Cannon once I obtained the
cannon, and finished the game with Cael Hammer & Calamity Cannon after
upgrading the Cael Hammer to max. The Army Carbine and Calamity Cannon are
absolutely overpowered, and end up one-shotting most enemies. I was actually
disappointed once I picked up the Battering Ram in the final level, because my
DPS was just straight up higher with the Calamity Cannon. There is a NG+ option
available after beating the game, so that might be nice to go back and do just
to see if it is harder.
