The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past
=======================================

Purchased for Nintendo 3DS for $8 on the Nintendo 3DS eShop last week.
Completed a playthough on 2022-02-16. Acquired all items (including upgraded
boomerang, bow & silver arrows, and golden sword), but only got 18 hearts + 3/4
heart pieces.

Overall I had a fun time with this game. A Link to the Past was the first
Legend of Zelda game I ever played (I originally played/beat the GameBoy
Advanced version) and this is the first playthough of the game I have done in
over a decade (I think?). A Link to the Past is, in my opinion, the most Legend
of Zelda-y of Legend of Zelda games: it is an action adventure game with
puzzles, secrets, dungeons, and a metroidvania-like open world.

The game is absolutely gorgeous, and holds up really well today. Everything is
super readable, and the visuals do an absolutely fantastic job of world-building
especially in the dark world. The music is also top-notch. At no point did I
ever get tired of the musical selection, which is saying a lot because now that
I think about it there aren't really that many tracks in this game.

Exploration in this game is super fun. There are so many little secrets to find
and a ton of completely optional content that is easy to miss. The actual size
of the overworld map(s) is pretty small, but the world has a high ration of
things to discover vs. number of screens, so that small world *feels* a lot
bigger in practice. Since I've played this game before I never really got stuck
during this playthough - I always had a rough idea of where to go, an I kinda
knew ahead of time which items were and were not required to progress.

That being said, I think this game has a major problem with its item pool. This
game has 20 kinds of usable items plus a handful of equipment and utility
items. Of those 20 items the only ones I ever used outside of mandatory story
progression points were the boomerang, hookshot, bottles (filled with "cure all
medicine"), flute, and the magic mirror. Items like the bow & arrow and bombs
are basically off limits until you are able to upgrade their storage capacity,
since you never know when you are going to need them. Items like the firerod,
icerod, lantern, and canes are purely situational and waste precious magic when
used. And some items like the magic cape and book of mudora are basically
glorified "press a to progress" items. The boomerang (when upgraded) and
hookshot are extraordinarily useful in combat, cost nothing, and are acquired
pretty early in game, so I ended up pretty much always having those on standby
and then switching to bombs, or arrows, or whatever only when I needed them to
progress though a dungeon room. The magic powder I used literally one time to
get the 1/2 magic cost upgrade, and the cane of byrna was literally never used
during my playthough. I want to especially call out the three medallions, which
are probably the worst items in-game. They cost a lot of magic to use and are
generally slower to use than your sword when clearing an area. Apart from the
mandatory times in which they are needed to progress I literally never used the
medallions - it just was not worth it.

I think a lot of these issues are fixed in The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between
Worlds (which I intend on playing next) by having the magic/item meter recharge
on a timer rather than recharge based on magic pickups, but even then I vaguely
recall one item (maybe arrows?) being super overpowered in that game.

I was also not super fond of the sword combat in A Link to the Past. One thing
I forgot about was just how short the invulnerability timer was after taking a
hit, so if you get cornered by an enemy with a fast walking speed then it is
common to take two or even three hits before getting a safe distance away after
initially being struck. I got used to it by the end of my playthough, but I did
get salty in a couple of instances, especially during the middle section of the
game when enemy start hitting hard, but before you acquire the blue armor.

One other thing that I didn't ever really realize was just how linear this game
is. In my foggy childhood remembering of this game I thought that you could
tackle the dark world dungeons in any order, but it turns out that's not really
the case. There are some dungeons that you can tackle out of order, but there
are a good number of item-checks that the dark world dungeons put in place to
make you more or less tackle them in 1->7 order. This isn't really a complaint,
especially since these item-checks appear organically in the world, but it was
interesting to realize that the game is really selling the illusion of an open
world while still providing a structured experience.

Since the 3DS virtual console has save states I *did* end up save stating my
way through the game. I used my usual doom rules where I had to clear a room
before saving, but I really did not have the time to perform potion restocks
and backtrack. Since I've already beaten this game before as a kid I give
myself a guilt-free pass to use save-states as a busy adult, having already
proven I am capable of beating the game save-stateless.

Any minor complaints aside I really had fun with this game. It holds up really
well, and this playthough has absolutely cemented it as one of my favorite LoZ
games.
