Transistor
==========

This game has been sitting never-opened on my Switch for years now. I'm pretty
sure I got it at the same time as Bastion, which checks out since they are both
by Supergiant Games. After having a lot of fun with Bastion I figured that
Transistor would probably also be worth a playthrough, and I was certainly not
disappointed.

Like Bastion, the visuals, narration, and music were amazing. I don't know what
special sauce supergiant Games uses for their art direction and writing, but it
is definitely a winning formula. The voice actor they chose for the narrator
really carried the game for me, and the painted art style depicting a
computer-esque world complemented the story and narration really well. I could
see myself going back for a NG+ run for the non-gameplay elements alone. Also,
as a software developer I liked all of the computer / programming references. I
could see how someone could find the references cheesy, but I thought they were
pretty neat. :D

I don't think the story in this one was as strong as in Bastion. The world was
fleshed out more, but a lot of the worldbuilding was behind a bunch of text
(from terminals and trace character story unlocks) which had me less invested
in this world than I was in Bastion's world. The story was also a little bit
harder to grok then in Bastion. It wasn't until the end of the first act after
the Sybil boss fight that I knew what the heck was going on. Not even in a
"let's uncover the mystery" kinda way, more of a "what the heck are these
characters doing and why" kinda way. The ending to this game was also somewhat
of a let down compared to Bastion, partially because the final boss fight felt
like it didn't belong in this game, and partially because the game felt like it
was sorta making up plot points on the fly towards the end. It was pretty easy
to see that the Transistor was a magic thingamabob that was important to the
world, but why did Asher have one in the final fight as well? It felt like the
game was going "something something the transistor is the bush with the city as
its canvas okay now fight and finish this whole thing up" without ever digging
into the details of how or why this world's mechanics work the way they do. Is
this world a simulation? Is the Transistor a god, or the artifact of a god? Has
this world been reset before? I guess we'll never find out.

Gameplay wise I liked Transistor a lot more than Bastion, the Turn() mechanic
was really neat, and combining function effects was great for experimenting &
keeping gameplay fresh. The challenges (which I completed all of) were also a
great way to play with different combinations of functions in a controlled
environment served as a good way to introduce some useful function combos to
the player. I mained Ping() + Crash(), Breach() + Bounce(), Spark() + Load(),
and Jaunt() for most of the run and the only two passives I ever really cared
about and used were Help() and Tap(). One thing I didn't like so much was how
some functions were basically mandatory for the entire game. If you did not
have Jaunt() equipped then moving around in and out of Turn() to avoid damage
was way harder. And it felt like Tap() was pretty much required to have the
health needed for certain late-game encounters. Another thing that really
bugged me was there there was no way to avoid all damage. In Bastion you could
always parry an attack, and in a lot of action games there is some sort of
defend or roll mechanism that will let you prevent taking oncoming damage if
you can use the mechanic correctly. But Transistor does not have that, and
there will be a bunch of times during Turn()'s recharge where you are just
running around with no way to defend yourself and hoping you don't get hit. I
would have loved to have something like a dedicated parry that would instantly
recharge my Turn(), but deal more damage to me if I timed the parry
incorrectly. Minor gripes aside, this game's combat system was novel and fun
enough to be interesting and combined with the great audiovisual aesthetics it
provides a compelling reason to revisit this title in the future.
