Animal Crossing: New Horizons Notes
===================================

My partner and I started playing this game at the same time around the end of
May (I think). I bought the game at full price on the eShop. Up to this point I
have put ~60 hrs into the game, I have gotten K.K. Slider to come to the
island, have unlocked (although not fully paid off) all rooms of my house, and
have a pretty solid income stream.

I see why this was everyone's pandemic game, and why some people have put
hundreds of hours into their island. The game gives you this nice world that
you get to shape just to your liking. There are a repetitive daily and weekly
tasks that always provide "stuff" for the player to do and/or maintain. And
everything is just so *nice*.

I think this game is really about getting the player to set their own
objectives and goals. Unfortunately, I really did not connect with this game on
a mechanical level, so I had very little desire to set my own goals, and that
eventually left me feeling pretty ehhh about the game as a whole. There are no
avenues to show mastery, seek self improvement, or overcome challenges. You
just collect shit, sell shit, buy shit, and then look at your shit. I have
enough shit in my real-life apartment already, and so this video game doesn't
end up feeling like an escape. Spending half and hour to pick all the stuff
from my farm and orchard to sell feels like work. Adding more rooms to my house
that I will never fill with anything feels like a waste of time. Building a
massive farm and massive orchard to generate money feels pointless when there
is nothing I want to buy.

I don't think this is a *bad* game, but it is definitely not *my* kind of game.
If I would have stopped at 20 or so hours while things were still fresh then
maybe I would have a better opinion on the whole thing, but after getting
through a good chunk (most?) of the content I have to say that a game about
collecting shit, collecting other shit to sell, buying shit with the money from
the shit you sold, and displaying that shit, is pretty boring. I'm glad I tried
a new type of game outside of my usual preferences, but Animal Crossing was
definitely a dud for me, and I don't think I'll be coming back to this game or
this series any time soon.
