System Shock Remake
===================

Impulse bought this game during the Steam summer sale for $32. I have never
played a System Shock game before, and did not know anything about the
franchise other than SHODAN was an iconic AI villain, System Shock 1 is a cult
classic with really bad controls and jank graphics, and System Shock 2 is a
cult classic that way way more popular than SS1. Some basic info on the System
Shock Remake said it was a faithful remake of the original game with updated
gameplay mechanics and graphics, so this was effectively my introduction to SS
as a franchise as well as my first playthrough of SS1.

There were a couple of times I got stuck and a bunch of small nitpicks I had
around game mechanics, but overall I think this was a fantastic game, well
worth the money I spent on it (I would absolutely have paid $60 for this game)
and a fantastic single player game. I think this is a game that will actually
be *more* fun to play in the future now that I know how the story goes. The
first half of the game was a survival horror for me, because I didn't know how
long the experience was, and so I didn't know how much ammo and healing items I
would get. I was backtracking a lot so that I could recharge energy weapons and
refill health for free without consuming items, but I now know that I had more
than enough supplies to go through the whole game without needing to worry. In
the second half of the game things opened up more for me and I started treating
the game more like an action FPS rather than survival horror, but it took me a
long time to get into that mindset. I didn't use most weapons until after the
2/3 of the game mark (I used SparQ, pistol, and magnum, and rapier for most of
the game). In future playthroughs I think I will use more weapons earlier on
since the final gauntlet really only gives you enough room to hold 4-5 weapons,
ammo, and healing items anyway.

In my ~22 hour playthrough, probably 1/3 to 1/2 of that was backtracking, item
management, and item collection. I was obsessed with vaporizing everything
since I once again I was treating the game like survival horror. I set up a
home base in the reactor med bay since it had a healing station, easy access to
energy recharging, a recycling station on the way to the elevator, and the
elevator had easy access to the rest of the map. In the reactor med bay I had
one corner where I collected human skulls, one corner for weapons, one corner
for all of the booze I found, anther corner for un-upgraded weapon duplicates,
and the shelves for storing excess items that did not fit in the cargo lift. I
would travel from this base to other parts of the map on exploration missions
and head back when I was low on health/energy, or when I had no more space in
my inventory. I will probably use this location as a home base in future
playthroughs, but will do so with less backtracing and maybe less emphasis on
short expeditions.

The graphics and sound design for this game were top notch. Like seriously
10/10 stuff. And it was immersive as hell. I was definitely exploiting cover
and movement of enemies to my advantage, but I was doing so partially because
the game absolutely nails down the atmosphere of you as an underdog survivor
alone against a impossible odds.

The only thing I did not like about the game was the cyberspace parts. Each
cyberspace minigame was just not fun to play in any way, and those puzzles long
outstayed there welcome. The ending was pretty bad too, and was so
disappointing coming off of the high that was the high-octane action of
security and the bridge. So the ending was pretty botched, but I can absolutely
forgive the game for that with how much else the team nailed down.

I think this game is a solid 8/10 or 9/10 as a single player experience, and I
think that I will enjoy it even more on subsequent playthroughs. My time with
SS1 was well spent, and when the SS2 enhanced edition comes out I will
absolutely be picking it up.
